Hello and welcome to another exam cram.
So as usual I'm going go quite fast.
There's lots to cover in this exam cram remember you can slow the playback speed if I go too fast for
you but I do not want to make these too long I want to keep these quite fast so let's get into it and
remember you can also find all this information on the training notes and in the e-book we provide to
you as well. So Amazon VPC is a virtual private cloud and it's logically isolated from every other VPC
in your account on AWS and VPC is a region wide so you always have a VPC created within a region a default
VPC is created in every region with a subnet in each availability zone and those are always public subnets
there's an option to define dedicated tenancy for a VPC and this ensures that instances are launched
on dedicated hardware and that overrides the configuration specified when you actually launch an EC2
instance the default VPC has all public subnets so one VPC in every region and a public subnet in
each availability zone within each of those regions public subnets are subnets that have the auto assigned
public IPv4 setting set to Yes.
So that EC2 instances will get a public IP address and the subnet table must have an attached Internet
gateway so there has to be an entry in the route table pointing to an Internet gateway.
Remember Internet gateways are attached to the VPC not the subnet.
You just put a route table entry to point to the to the Internet gateway instances in the default VPC
always have a public and private IP.
Now AZ names are mapped to different zones for different users.
So in this example I'm saying ap-southeast-2a might be a different underlying availability zone than in
my account than it is in your account for instance.
And that's just to try and sort of randomize where people are actually placing their workloads. Components
of a VPC include the VPC itself.
So that's a logically isolated virtual network and you can define the VPC IP address range. A subnet
is an address range so an IP address range where you place groups of resources.
Remember each subnet maps to one AZ.
You can have multiple subnets attached to an AZ but you can't have a subnet span across availability
zones.
You then have the Internet gateway and that's the VPC side of a connection to the public Internet.
You have a NAT gateway so remember NAT devices are doing network address translation and this is to
allow resources, EC2 instances in private subnets to access the Internet.
We then have a hardware VPN connection and that is for setting up virtual private networks between VPC
and a datacenter or home network or colo facility.
So a virtual private network over the Internet you can have a virtual private gateway.
That's the Amazon side of a VPN connection. The customer a gateway is the customer side.
So if you're connecting in your company network the customer Gateway is a configuration that relates
to the customer side, the company side of the network.
We then have the router so the routers interconnect the subnets and direct traffic between Internet
gateways virtual private gateways NAT gateways and subnets.
Then you don't really see the router it's not a component that you create or that you can actually visualize
but you do control it through the route table.
We then have a peering connection.
So this is how you can route private traffic using private IP addresses between different VPCs and
even across accounts. VPC endpoints enable private connectivity to services hosted in AWS from within
your VPC without using an Internet gateway a VPN or a network address translation device.
So that's where you're offering a service as a kind of service provider model and it can be consumed
without using the Internet.
You then have the egress only Internet gateway.
That's a different type of Internet gateway that's for IPv6 traffic.
Now back to routing the VPC router performs the routing between the availability zones it connects
different AZs together and connects the VPC to the Internet gateway as well.
Each subnet has a route table that the router uses for traffic within the VPC. Route tables can also
have entries to external destinations.
And this is a couple of examples of a couple route tables.
So remember you have your CIDR block.
So you will always see this target local and that'll be the side a block of the VPC.
So that means you can route traffic between all of your subnets within your VPC without having to change
the route table.
And then you've got a route table entry here to an Internet gateway and that specifies any destination
IP address and the same here except this is a private round table.
So it actually has a NAT Gateway I.D. to get out to the Internet instead.
So types of subnet if a subnets traffic's routed to an Internet gateway it's a public subnet.
If a subnet doesn't have a route to an Internet Gateway it's known as a private subnet if it doesn't have
a route to an Internet gateway but has its traffic routed to a virtual private gateway for a VPN then
it's known as a VPN only subnet. For IP addressing within a VPC the VPC is created with a master address
range that's the CIDR block.
Remember CIDR is classless into domain routing so that's the block of addresses and it could be anywhere
from sixteen to 28 bits long and subnet ranges are then created within that range new subnets always
get associated with the default route table.
So watch out for exam questions there.
Just remember when you create a new subnet it will be associated with a default route table.
If you wanted to change the routing in some way you have to create another route table and manually
go and associate it.
You can't change the CIDR block for a VPC once it's created.
You can't create additional CIDR blocks that overlap with the existing CIDR blocks and you
can't create additional CIDR blocks in a different see 1918 range. Subnets with overlapping IPs
cannot be created.
Remember the first four, and last one IP address in a subnet are reserved and a subnet is created within an
availability zone so a subnet maps to an availability zone and cannot span across availability zones.
So for internet gateways they serve two purposes.
They provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet routes of all traffic and they perform network
address translation for those instances that have assigned a public IP addresses.
They must be created and then attached to a VPC so they don't attach to the subnet they're attached
to the VPC.
And then you have an entry to a route table and associate that route table with the right subnet.
And then you can route out to the Internet.
And obviously those EC2 instances in that subnet must have public IP addresses.
There's no availability risk or bandwidth constraints with Internet gateways and you can't have multiple
gateways in a VPC.
Again the egress only Internet gateway is for outbound Internet access for IPv6 with security
groups.
These act as a firewall at the instance level.
So it's actually attached to the network interface of your EC2 instances.
You can only assign permit rules you cannot assign deny rules. All rules get evaluated until a permit
is encountered or continues until the implicit deny.
So that means if it doesn't find an allow rule then just by default
won't allow the traffic. You can control traffic going into your instances or out from your instances
so ingress and egress a security group is stateless so the key thing here traffic comes in for instance
on port 80 the return traffic going back to the client with their web browser is going to not go back
on port 80 because an ephemeral port will be used which is typically a port above 1024.
Now with a security group it will allow that traffic go back because it knows that it's associated with
the traffic that was allowed inbound to your web server.
Now that's very different to a network ACL which we'll see shortly. By default custom security groups
do not have inbound allows. If you create a custom security group no traffic will be allowed by default.
You have to explicitly define what you want to allow by default.
The default security groups do have inbound allow rules and they allow traffic from members of
the group itself.
Little bit more security groups all outbound traffic is allowed by default in both custom and default
security groups.
You cannot delete the security group that's created by default in a VPC.
You can use a security group name as a source or destination in another security group.
You can use the security group name as a source in its own inbound rules so that basically means that
if you attach a security group to a group of instances whatever inbound allow rules are defined that
traffic will be allowed to those instances.
Security group membership can be changed while instances are running.
So you can do it at any time and they take immediate effect.
You can't block specific IP addresses using security groups for that you'll use NACLs.